# Assignment 8
## CPSC 4175 - Software Engineering
## John Johnson

1. __The book notes that the__ ___Unified Process___ __is not "a specific series of steps." It notes that "[i]nstead, the Unified Process should be viewed as an adaptable methodology." Given this, how should you approach the content in this chapter that seems to present the Unified Process as a specific series of steps? How would you approach this chapter if you in fact viewed the Unified Process, not as a process, but simply as a methodology?__
    - As with many of the topics discussed in the textbook, the practices outlined must be adjusted to fit the project that you or your team will be working on. With this in mind I would approach the topic as I would the other topics in the book, not as a one-size-fits-all solution but rather as a helpful set of guidelines on how to proceed given a similar development scenario.
2. __The book states that "[t]he object-oriented paradigm is an iterative-and-incremental methodology." Do you think that this is a true statement? How is this similar to our class discussions of a spiral approach to software engineering? Is there any difference between these two views, and if so, what is the difference?__
    - The statement holds truth from a typical software engineering standpoint. Ideally in an object oriented paradigm coupled with the application of sound software engineering techniques the designs for the software in development would be revisited multplie times as more information becomes available to the implmentation team.
3. __In class, we are using an iterative process with four phases: analysis, design, implementation, and testing. The book discusses the__ ___five core workflows___ __of the Unified Process. List the five core workflows, and for each, give a__ ___brief___ __summary of the workflow.__
    - __Requirements:__ Process by which the development organization determines exactly what the client needs and if there are any constraints involved.
    - __Analysis:__ Refinement of the requirements to a degree necessary for software design and implementation.
    - __Design:__ Further refinement of the requirements by direct specification of _how_ the software will perform what it needs to do.
    - __Implementation:__ Implementation of the software in a chosen language.
    - __Testing:__ Carried out to varying degree in all prior phases, major focus on _traceability_ to corresponding requirements.
4. __What is the relationship between the__ ___software project management plan___ __and the software development process? Do you think that a software project management plan can replace an explicit software development process? Why or why not?__
    - The software project management plan ensures that the project in focus is delivered on time and within budget. The two are related because the SPMP ensures that the software being development through the SDP adheres to the aforementioned time and fiscal constraints, however the two are not interchangeable as the earliest point at which a SPMP can be drafted is during the analysis phase of the SDP.
5. __Section 3.7 discusses testing with regard to four process areas: requirements artifacts, analysis artifacts, design artifacts, and implementation artifacts. What is the difference between the test workflow discussed in the chapter, and the testing of the artifacts produced in each of the five process areas? Do you think that this is an inconsistency in the book's treatment of testing?__
    - I don't believe that there exists an inconsistency here between the testing methods discussed in the text. The text explicity states that testing is performed throughout the software development process and as such the artifact testing relative to each process area is consistent with that statement.
6. __If it is true, as the book claims, that "[p]ostdelivery maintenance is not an activity grudgingly carried out after the product has been delivered and installed on the client's computer," how do you fit postdelivery maintenance into an iterative, spiral development model?__
    - It would consist of the same process sequence, however instead of starting from a clean slate the development focus would be on an additional functional/non-functional requirement proposed after product delivery.
7. __Look at figure 3.10 on page 88 of the book. This figure seems to suggest a model of five workflows (requirements, analysis, design, implementation, and testing), with each workflow consisting of four phases (inception, elaboration, construction, and transition). In class, we have talked about an iterative, spiral model with four phases for each iteration (analysis, design, implementation, and testing). Do you think that these two approaches are mutually exclusive? Do you think that they are mutually supportive? Before you answer, review your response to the first question.__
    - Corroborating my reponse to the first question, both approaches are different flavors of the unified process and dependent upon the software being developed. I don't believe that one is necessarily dependent on the other but rather that one may be more suited to a producing a solution to a problem than the other would be.
8. __Look at figure 3.2 on page 94. In a sense, the waterfall method can be easily adopted to an iterative, spiral development model, using the waterfall approach to model each iteration, i.e., not a "waterfall" but a series of rapids, or a cascade. Viewed in this way, how do you think model 3.2a and 3.2b would actually differ in a real-life project? Do you think that they would basically amount to the same thing, or do you think that they would be fundamentally different?__
    - They would ultimately be very similar in structure with each phase consisting of multiple subphases. The only difference that I could forsee in the application of this variant of the waterfall method would be that there would be no return to any previous phase in the process hence the "waterfall" aspect.
9. __The last section discusses__ ___software process improvement.___ __What is the difference between software improvement, and software process improvement? How important do you think that software process improvement is in the field of software engineering?__
    - The most prominant difference between the two is that one focuses on the improvement in _the way we develop software_ whereas the other focuses on the _quality of the software_ that is produced. Software process improvement is vital to the development of the field of engineering as it's aim is to ensure the delivery of sound software solutions within constraints set forth by the development environment.
